COEN 242 Big Data
Spring 2020

Assignment 1: Top K Words

Author: Shiva Keshav Govindaraju
Date: 26 April 2020

Instructions:

This Application requires the utilization of Python 3.7 and a Linux-based OS and terminal.

To run the application, run the TopKWords.py script via the terminal (or your choice of running a Python script).

>> python TopKWords.py

This will output a series of input-prompts to clarify what dataset you would like to run the script on and what other input parameters you would like it to consider.

The first of these input prompts asks if you would like to run the script on a specific dataset or run through the Generic Tests. The Generic Test runs the script through a batch of different tests and was implemented for the ease of generating data for analysis of the design/implemention. It is recommended that the user decide to run a Specific Test which will prompt the user for further input.

>>---Shiva Govindaraju COEN 242 Assignment 1 --- Top K Words---
>>Would you like to run the Generic Test or a Specific Test? (0 - Generic; 1 - Specific): 1

When given the choice for a Specific Test, the script will then prompt the user for further input parameters.

These input parameters are the filename of the dataset you would like to execute the Top K Words application on; K, the number of words the script will find as an output; and Shard Count, which is the number of shards the script will break the input dataset into for easier processing of the large datafiles.

The filename should be given exactly as it is named, and should be located in the same folder of the file-path as the TopKWords.py application. This application will not work correctly otherwise.

K should be any reasonable value for the dataset in the range of [1, N] where N is the number of unique words in the dataset.

Shard Count should be in the range of [1, 5000] in order to keep the sharding call from overloading the user's inode space. It is recommended that the user should try to pick a number of shards that would result in breaking the input data set into shards of around 5-10MB in size for efficiency in processing.

A sample for the prompts and user's inputs is shown here:

>>Running Specific Test.
>>Which file would you like to run on?: dataset-400MB.txt
>>Set the number of words to output (k): 5
>>How many shards should be used? (Recommended [1, 5000]): 50

After this, the Test will run until completion and output of the Top K Words for that given dataset.

IMPORTANT: There should be sufficient disk-space available on the machine running this application for a second copy of the initial dataset. If there is insufficient diskspace for a complete copy of the dataset (as well as space for all the inodes generated by the sharding process), then this application will not run correctly.